# ACTN POI weekly call - Slot 1 (February 15, 2022)

## Participants
- Fabio Peruzzini
- Gabriele Galimberti
- Italo Busi
- Jeff Bouquier
- Paolo Volpato
- Sergio Belotti
- Swamynathan B.
- Victor Lopez

## Admin

### Review of the minutes of the latest Slot 2 calls

Minutes of the call on January 25, 2022 reviewed: https://github.com/FabioPeruzzini/actn-poi/blob/master/minutes/minutes-2022-01-25.md

Minutes of the call on February 8, 2022 reviewed: https://github.com/FabioPeruzzini/actn-poi/blob/master/minutes/minutes-2022-02-08.md

### Closed Issues

None

### Next calls

- February 22nd at 11am NAEST / 5pm CET / midnight CST (Slot 2)
- March 1st at 4:30am NAEST / 10:30am CET / 5:30pm China (Slot 1)

## Discussion

### IETF 113 preparation (issue #75)

> - [ ] @oscargdd : have some offline discussion with SPRING people to start sharing the issue

The meeting with SPRING experts is planned this week: feedbacks to be reviewed in next weekly call

> - [ ] @italobusi @oscargdd @sergiobelotti : check with Pavan on TEAS Friday call

Plan to discuss this Friday and report feedbacks at the next weekly call

### Text review (PR #69)

> - [x] Italo: complete the text proposal and send a mail to the reviewers once the document is ready for review

Text proposal completed and PR review initiated on January 31st

https://github.com/FabioPeruzzini/actn-poi/tree/text-review

Slides with some figures describing some link discovery cases uploaded on github:

https://github.com/FabioPeruzzini/actn-poi/files/7970529/inter-domain-link-discovery-00.pptx

Comments received from Jeff and Paolo

Major comments from Jeff:

1. in section 4.2 the description starts from a reference to a figure with router names but optical nodes have no names and the description becomes more generic. The text should be either generic or just be an example till the end.

Agreement to review the text description

2. we say that the MDSC always sends the explicit path to the P-PNC, but with big domains it may be beneficial to just provide a loose path and leave up to the P-PNC to figure out the detailed path

Major comments from Paolo:
1. section 2.2 should be maintained but rewritten to clarify that SR-TE is used (related to Jeff's comment 2 above)

Agreement is to keep section 2.2 and to align its content with the rest of the document

The key issue is about whether the MDSC needs to always configure an explicit path or whether it could specify a loose path

As discussed in section 2.1.2, with partial summarization the MDSC computes the complete path in the packet layer. This is required for the MDSC to understand whether there is a need or not to setup new optical tunnels and, if needed, which optical tunnels to request to O-PNCs.

However, there is no need for the MDSC to always specify the complete explicit path to the P-PNC when requesting the P-PNC to set the path up. If the MDSC specifies a loose path to the P-PNC, it is possible that the intra-domain path installed by P-PNC is different from the intra-domain path segment computed by the MDSC but, as long as the TE constraints are satisfied, this is acceptable.

Considering for example the SR-TE path between PE13 and PE23, the MDSC can compute the PE13-P15-BR11 - BR21-P24-PE23 path. In this case, the MDSC can request the P-PNC2 to setup the strict BR21-P24-PE23 path or a loose BR21-PE23 path. In the latter case, the P-PNC2 can setup a BR21-BR22-PE23 path instead of the BR21-P24-PE23 path computed by the MDSC.

Bandwidth allocation with RSVP-TE is performed by the routers; with SR-TE bandwidth allocation is not performed by the routers but by a controller. In our scenario, the controller can be either the P-PNC or the MDSC: in the draft it is assumed that it is the P-PNC.
