# ACTN POI weekly call - Slot 1 (September 7, 2021)

## Participants
- Brent Foster
- Gabriele Galimberti
- Italo Busi
- Jeff Bouquier
- Oscar Gonz√°lez de Dios
- Paolo Volpato
- Sergio Belotti

## Admin

### Review of the minutes of the latest Slot 2 calls

Minutes of the call on August 31, 2021 reviewed: [minutes-2021-08-31](https://github.com/FabioPeruzzini/actn-poi/blob/master/minutes/minutes-2021-08-31.md)

### Closed Issues

None

### Next calls

- September 14th at 4:30am EDT / 10:30am CEST / 4:30pm China (Slot 2)
- September 21st at 11am EDT / 5pm CEST / 11pm China (Slot 1)
- September 28th at 4:30am EDT / 10:30am CEST / 4:30pm China (Slot 2)
- October 5th at 11am EDT / 5pm CEST / 11pm China (Slot 1)

## Discussion

### L3VPN ([Issue #38](https://github.com/FabioPeruzzini/actn-poi/issues/38))

Plan:
- consider summarization scenario
- consider BGP-LU option

### BGP-LU scenario ([Issue #66](https://github.com/FabioPeruzzini/actn-poi/issues/66))

Agreement to focus on SR-TE in this document and to address BGP-LU in another document: to be further discussed after this document is ready for WG LC, to address current deployments

Brent: a possible topic to be considered in a future document could be the cases of colored optics on the routers

Oscar: maybe it would be better to develop a problem statement document, describing the scenario, requirements and challenges

To be further discussed after this document is ready for WG LC

### Summarization

#### Summarization of IP topology ([Issue #64](https://github.com/FabioPeruzzini/actn-poi/issues/64))

See: https://github.com/FabioPeruzzini/actn-poi/issues/64#issuecomment-909082213

Agreed to close this issue and leave scenarios where P-PNC can abstract the IP topology view outside the scope of this document

#### P-PNC awareness of underlaying Optical tunnels' SRLGs ([Issue #45](https://github.com/FabioPeruzzini/actn-poi/issues/45))

Oscar: what happens if the optical path is re-routed? The SRLGs of the optical path can change and this change needs to be reflected by the MDSC to the P-PNC

The current model allows the MDSC to write information in the topology model but we might need to have some security checks that allows the MDSC only to write the SRLG information

Brent: another possible change of the optical path is a change in the latency. In this case, the MDSC could reflect the updated latency to the P-PNC

Oscar: I though that the delay can be computed by the P-PNC without relying on the MDSC configuration information. I am not sure it is worth the MDSC writing this information in the topology to the P-PNC

Agreement: do not describe the configuration of the delay but write the text not to preclude this: the P-PNC should have mechanisms to restrict the attributes the MDSC can configure (e.g., restrict configuration only to the SRLG values)

There is this editors' note in the draft: Analyze how TI-LFA can take into account multi-layer SRLG disjointness, providing that SRLG information is provided by the O-PNCs to the P-PNC through the MDSC.

- [ ] Italo: update the draft text based on this discussion

#### Hierarchical MSDC architecture ([Issue #46](https://github.com/FabioPeruzzini/actn-poi/issues/46))

See: [PR #65](https://github.com/FabioPeruzzini/actn-poi/issues/65)

This text should be sufficient for the scope of this draft

The text proposal is also addressing the editorial comments in [Issue #51](https://github.com/FabioPeruzzini/actn-poi/issues/51)

- [ ] **Jeff B., Sergio, Gabriele**: review [PR #65](https://github.com/FabioPeruzzini/actn-poi/issues/65)
