# ACTN POI weekly call - Slot 2 (November 29, 2022)

## Participants
- Fabio Peruzzini
- Italo Busi
- Jeff Bouquier
- Reza Rokui
- Sergio Belotti

## Admin

### Review of the minutes of the latest Slot 1 calls

Minutes of the call on November 22, 2022 reviewed: https://github.com/FabioPeruzzini/actn-poi/blob/master/minutes/minutes-2022-11-22.md

### Closed Issues

- PR #105 has been merged. Issue #88 is still open waiting for feedbacks from the chairs

### Next calls

- December 13th at 11am NA EDT / 5pm CEST / 11pm CST (Slot 2)
- December 20th at 4:30am NA EDT / 10:30am CEST / 4:30pm CST (Slot 1)
- January 10th at 11am NA EDT / 5pm CEST / 11pm CST (Slot 2)
- January 17th at 4:30am NA EDT / 10:30am CEST / 4:30pm CST (Slot 1)

## Discussion

### Mix of fixed and flexi grid DWDM networks (issue #100)

Jeff: the fixed-grid network can be also managed using flexi-grid topology model and therefore the flexi-grid topology model can be used to manage fixed-grid, flexible-grid and mixed fixed-grid and flexible-grid DWDM networks

Italo: there are two issues when using the flexi-grid topology model for a fixed-grid network:
1) flexi-grid topology model can support multiple nominal central frequency granularity and slot width granularity values, so there are many options to describe the fixed-grid networks
2) the flexi-grid topology model cannot manage fixed-grid CWDM networks

We have agreed that issue 1) can be solved by using, as a convention, the 6.25GHz and 12.5GHz values for for nominal central frequency granularity and slot width granularity (which are the only standardized values in ITU-T G.694.1). The flexi-grid topology models allow different nominal central frequency granularity and slot width granularity values to co-exist within the same topology.

Jeff: CWDM networks are only for access and outside the scope of POI. Therefore the flexi-grid topology could be used for mixed-grid networks supporting POI.

It has been agreed to close this issue describing this approach.

- [ ] **Italo**: update the draft to describe the use of flexi-grid topology for fixed-grid and mixed DWDM networks.

### Draft updates for IETF 116 (draft PR #106)

Most of the open issues just require writing the text to be closed.

Some editorial work has started and it will be progressed in PR #106 which is still in a draft state.

After the text proposal in PR #106 is mature, the PR will be opened for review.

Initial comments:

- the TI-LFA description can be generalized as local protection and cover also FRR;
- clarify how the YANG models analyzed in the main body of the document could be used also with muxponders;
- if the muxponder can constraint which client ports can be connected together, this constraint shall be reported to the MDSC through the MPI but this information is not defined in the existing topology YANG models (it could be gap).

- [ ] **Italo, Sergio, Jeff, Fabio**: check whether muxponders can constraint which client ports can be connected together (talk offline also with Gabriele)
