# ACTN POI bi-weekly call (December 14, 2020)

## Participants
- Gabriele Galimberti
- Haomian Zheng
- Italo Busi
- Jeff Bouquier
- Paolo Volpato
- Sergio Belotti
- Swamynathan B.
- Yuji Tochio

## Review of the minutes of the last call (November 9, 2020)

Minutes of the call on November 9, 2020 reviewed: [minutes-2020-11-09](https://github.com/FabioPeruzzini/actn-poi/blob/master/minutes/minutes-2020-11-09.md)

No comments: minutes approved.

**Past Actions:**
- [ ] __Gabriele__: check if some IP experts can also join the work\
Pending
- [x] __Italo__: check with Daniel (slides for IETF 109)\
Slides reviewed via e-mail and presented at IETF 109.
- [x] __Everybody__: start reviewing the open issues on github and in the word document and propose some resolution\
For discussion in this call
- [x] __Italo__: ask the TEAS WG chairs to arrange the Webex meeting for the future calls\
Invitations have been sent on the TEAS WG mailing list:
  * Slot 1 (Monday, 11am CET):\
https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/msg/teas/5yN32OIxixHTefwe1FH1oIhNfEg/
  * Slot 2 (Tuesday, 5pm CET):\
https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/msg/teas/AmnnjHZ-oNv3-JO0UjXTuL7cN64/

The next call is planned on December 29th which is during Christmas holiday period

**Actions**
- [ ] **Italo**: send a mail to check who is planning to join. If not enough participants, the call will be cancelled.

## Discussion

### Feedbacks from IETF 109

We have got one comment about the use of term "isolation".

Terminology could be aligned with the slicing DT within TEAS WG.

Jeff: better to start from low-latency L3VPN simple scenarios that are working with POI and later on to align with VN or network slicing which are still under definition in TEAS WG.

We can keep the current text and mark the fact that it needs to be reviewed and aligned with the DT work. We can decide to remove this text before WG LC if the work in the DT is not mature enough.

There are requirements to support L2VPN/L3VPN with dedicated resources but not in the short/medium terms.

### Addressing Dhruv's comments [PR#30](https://github.com/FabioPeruzzini/actn-poi/pull/30)

The proposed text has been updated to address the review comments based on the discussion during the call on November 9, 2020.

The PR has been approved and merged in github.

### Next Steps

#### Inventory (Issues #16)

Need for an operator to have a centralized inventory system which can interface with PNCs and/or MDSC through a standard NBI interface.

At the MDSC level, it is needed at least to have also physical information e.g. what physical port of router is connected to which physical port of optical NE or transponder.

Exposing inventory information for the physical links within a given PNC domain is a matter of abstraction policy.

Inventory is a gap in the current set of IETF YANG models. Within the scope of this draft, we can highlight the requirements and gap.

Another draft can be prepared and proposed to resolve this gap.

***Action***
- [ ] **Jeff**: propose some text describing the need for a standard inventory NBI
- [ ] **Italo/Sergio**: check with TE authors about the network inventory model

#### L2VPN/L3VPN

We can start analysing a L3VPN setup scenario.

One potential gap could be the UNI topology discovery as highlight in issue #31

***Action***
- [ ] **Jeff**: propose a L3VPN scenario to be analysed

## Next calls:
- December 29th at 4pm CET (to be confirmed)
- January 11th at 11am CET
- January 26th at 4pm CET
