# ACTN POI weekly call - Slot 2 (September 20, 2022)

## Participants
- Brent Foster
- Jeff Bouquier
- Paolo Volpato
- Prasenjit Manna
- Sergio Belotti

## Admin

### Review of the minutes of the latest Slot 2 calls

### Closed Issues

### Next calls

- September 20th at 11am NA EDT / 5pm CEST / 11pm CST (Slot 2)
- September 27th at 4:30am NA EDT / 10:30am CEST / 4:30pm CST (Slot 1)
- October 4th at 11am NA EDT / 5pm CEST / 11pm CST (Slot 2)
- October 11th at 4:30am NA EDT / 10:30am CEST / 4:30pm CST (Slot 1)

Jeff will chair the call on September 27th

Proposed items for the agenda of the next call: issues #29, #45, #83, #98

## Discussion

### Standard reference for TI-LFA local protection (issue #95)
**Brent** will add reference to TI-LFA and update the comment. 

### Binding between a L3VPN and an end-to-end SR-TE path (issue #83)  
There is no generic solution exists in multi-domain scenario with rsvp-te/bgp-lu, the solution exists in SR. We might need to wait till the meeting with TEAS WG chairs (meeting planned on 4th Oct).

###  Protection options with SR-TE (issue #80) 
**Brent** will add small write up.

###  P-PNC awareness of underlying Optical tunnels' SRLGs #45 
There is no yang model/automated way to pass SRLG to MSDC and P-PNC. It can be written that srlg should be properly configured in MDSC and P-PNC manually and verify it. 
Another option suggested by **Jeff**, dont provide SRLG to P-PNC, MDSC will be doing the multi-layer co-relation with SRLG infomration and inform to P-PNC for the next course of action.
It will be again discussed in next meeting/4th Oct once Italo is back

### Additional parameters for LAG configuration #98 
Really LAG required? We need to clarify better, need more discussion on this.


The deadline for IETF 115 I-D submission is October 24, 2022


