
# ACTN POI Bi-weekly call on May 25, 2020

## Participants

- Italo Busi
- Sergio Belotti
- Jeff Bouquier
- Anton Snitser
- Daniele Ceccarelli
- Gabriele Galimberti
- Haomian Zheng

## 1) Call scheduling

Proposal: have bi-weekly call alternating times which are convenient for US West coast and times which are convenient for China. We will provide minutes so people who cannot join the call can comment/contribute via mail/github

The time convenient for China will be Monday 11-12 CEST (5-6pm China)

For the time convenient to US West coast, Tuesday 5pm CEST (8am PST) has been proposed: to be confirmed with Jeff T.

Ad-hoc calls can be organized when there are topics that needs more extensive discussion.

Planning for next calls:

- June 8 at 11am CEST

- June 16 at 5pm CEST (pending confirmation from Jeff T.)

## 2) Review of new ToC

An initial draft proposal for the new ToC has been uploaded on github:

[https://github.com/FabioPeruzzini/actn-poi/tree/new-toc](https://github.com/FabioPeruzzini/actn-poi/tree/new-toc)

The initial proposal has been reviewed

We have agreed to use the following terminology:

- DWDM to represent either WSON or flexi-grid

- Optical to represent either DWDM or OTN

We have agreed to add some text about the value of network abstraction (provided in the comments)

We have agreed to mention that the cases of colored interfaces on the routers is out of scope from this draft

> Action (Gabriele): to propose some text for a paragraph to clarify this point

It is proposed to limit the scope of optical by-pass tunnels only for supporting intra-AS IP links (not bypassing ASBRs), at least as a starting point (we can reconsider for future versions of the draft or for a future RFC). To be confirmed by e-mail

> Action (Italo): ask the question via mail

There is already an open issue about NMDA. We will keep the text in the proposed draft and reconsider it when addressing the open issue:

[https://github.com/FabioPeruzzini/actn-poi/issues/3](https://github.com/FabioPeruzzini/actn-poi/issues/3)

There is a need to reconcile Figure 1 and with Figure 2: in Figure 1, MDSC is the whole service/network orchestrator while in Figure 2 it is just a function of the service/network orchestrator.

It has been agreed to further discuss this issue offline.

The discussion about the different level of isolation (hard/soft) needs further reconsideration.

It has been agreed to create a new open issue to discuss it after we have finished the restructuring of the document content.

## Next steps:

- keep working on sections 2.4, 2.5 and 3 and review the progress in the next bi-weekly call
