# ACTN POI bi-weekly call (March 15, 2021)

## Participants
- Anton Snitser
- Gabriele Galimberti
- Italo Busi
- Oscar Gonz√°lez de Dios
- Paolo Volpato
- Sergio Belotti
- Swamynathan B.
- Yuji Tochio
- Zheng Yanlei

## Review of the minutes of the latest Slot 2 calls

Minutes of the call on February 23, 2021 reviewed: [minutes-2021-02-23](https://github.com/FabioPeruzzini/actn-poi/blob/master/minutes/minutes-2021-02-23.md)

Minutes of the call on March 2, 2021 reviewed: [minutes-2021-03-02](https://github.com/FabioPeruzzini/actn-poi/blob/master/minutes/minutes-2021-03-02.md)

**Past Actions:**

- [x] **Jeff/Italo/Paolo/Brent**: start analysing the L3VPN scenario (to be provided by Jeff)\
__Closed:__ Discussed in the latest slot 2 calls. Analysis to be continued: now tracked in github as [issue #38](https://github.com/FabioPeruzzini/actn-poi/issues/38)

- [ ] __Jeff B.__: Check with other operators about the option to consider for multi-domain L3VPN (e.g., Binding SID)\
__On-going:__ waiting for feedbacks from other operators

- [ ] __Action (Brent/Paolo):__ provide more input about the need to support EPE SID\
__Status:__ 

- [x] **Jeff/Italo**: propose some text describing the need for a standard inventory NBI\
__Closed:__ See [PR #43](https://github.com/FabioPeruzzini/actn-poi/pull/43)

- [x] **Italo**: Ask TEAS WG chair to move the Webex meeting from March 8th to March 15th\
__Closed__ 

## Discussion

### Admin

Please note that due to the summer time switch in US and not in EU, the next slot 2 call is planned on March 23rd at 4pm CET (rather than 5pm CET)

Next Slot 1 call is planned on April 5th (Easther Monday)

It is proposed to move it to March 29th

- [ ] **Italo**: Ask TEAS WG chair to move the Webex meeting from April 5h to March 29th

Two on-going polls to check availability for different times for both slot 1 and slot 2:

- https://doodle.com/poll/k2nqkipsh8a46t8s?utm_source=poll&utm_medium=link (slot 1)

- https://doodle.com/poll/88tab34bnmfrzupb?utm_source=poll&utm_medium=link (slot 2)

**Actions:**

- [ ] **All**: reply to the Doodle polls before March 19th EOB

The plan is to start the calls with the new time, if any, from March 29th

It may be worthwhile considering to make the ACTN POI calls weekly (still alternating slots 1 and 2)

- [ ] **Italo**: send a mail to get feedbacks from other contributors about the option to make ACTN POI calls weekly

### L3VPN ([Issue #38](https://github.com/FabioPeruzzini/actn-poi/issues/38))

### Inventory ([Issue #16](https://github.com/FabioPeruzzini/actn-poi/issues/16))

Oscar: when we refer to inventory, we refer to inventory of the devices (e.g., cards on the equipment). We have an approach based on schema mount but we do not know if it has to be standardized

Oscar volonteered to join Italo/Sergio/Jeff B./Anton/Fabio on the solution for the Inventory

Oscar: the full picture needs to be completed with the analysis of the alarms and performances

This is currently outside the scope of this document but it could be considered as an item for a future document/RFC, if needed

Gabriele: also the scenario with DWDM interfaces on the routers is outside the scope of this document but there are still a lot of discussions on-going
Sergio: Is it the optics plugable on the router what are you referring to?

Gabriele: Yes it is.

Oscar: in our network, 80/90% of the connectivity stay within a single Optical domain but 10/20% of the connectivity is through multiple Optical domain. It is possible that a multi-domain Optical tunnel can support a intra-domain IP link. 

Swamynathan: whether you have a single-domain or a multi-domain, expecially on the router side, is a consequence of the architecture decision

Oscar: from applicability perspective, you are not limited on the scenario. I have not an answer today if one single controller for the whole network will scale.

Swamynathan: another debate is about whether the domain controllers should be hierarchical or federated. The doubt is about how the information would flow.

Oscar: the packet network will be split in multiple IGP areas (at least for big operators) then the question is whether to have a single domain controller for the whole netwokr or multiple domain controllers, one for each IGP area. The solution should work on both cases as long as the interfaces are clear.

Text proposal to address the issue provided in [PR #43](https://github.com/FabioPeruzzini/actn-poi/pull/43)

Oscar, Sergio, Anton and Paolo volounteered to review the pull request

- [ ] **Italo**: ask Fabio to add Oscar as a contributor to ACTN POI github

### Plan for IETF 111

Daniel has volounteer to have a full review of the -02 draft before submitting it to IETF.

Possible plan for an update at IETF 111:
- All: prepare a -02 draft for IETF 110 before June 28
- Daniel: provide a review before July 5
- Italo: submit the -02 draft on July 12 (expected cut-off dealine for IETF111, not yet announced)

## Next calls:

***BE CAREFUL WITH SUMMER TIME CHANGES***

- March 23rd at ~~5pm~~**4pm** CET (Slot 2)
- ~~April 5th~~**March 29th** at 11am CEST (Slot 1), pending doodle poll results
- April 20th at 5pm CEST (Slot 2), pending doodle poll results
