# ACTN POI weekly call - Slot 2 (November 15, 2022)

## Participants
- Brent Foster
- Gabriele Galimberti
- Italo Busi
- Julien Meuric
- Oscar González de Dios
- Prasenjit Manna
- Sergio Belotti

## Admin

### Closed Issues

Issue closed after the latest ACTN POI call:
- Plan for calls after IETF 115 #104

Issues moved to IETF 116 milestone:
- Additional parameters for LAG configuration #98
- Generalize description of SR-TE tunnel #88
- Check the need for L3-TE Topo #85
- SR-TE traffic steering on a device #72

IETF 115 milestone closed

### Next calls

- November 22nd at 4:30am NA EDT / 10:30am CEST / 4:30pm CST (Slot 1)
- November 29th at 11am NA EDT / 5pm CEST / 11pm CST (Slot 2)
- December 13th at 11am NA EDT / 5pm CEST / 11pm CST (Slot 2)

The call on December 6th has been cancelled due to holidays in some countries (e.g., Italy and Spain)

## Discussion

### Generalize description of SR-TE tunnel (issue #88)

Discussed offline with Pavan and Daniel during IETF 115

Proposed resolution provided by Daniel together with additional review comments in PR #105

The target plan is to complete the review of this PR during the next weekly call and to use the updated text as the basis for the next editorial round

- [ ] Italo: check offline if Jeff can review the PR

### Additional parameters for LAG configuration (issue #98)

Discussed offline with Oscar during IETF 115: https://github.com/FabioPeruzzini/actn-poi/issues/98#issuecomment-1307562528

It has been agreed to describe this requirement in the draft highlighting this as a gap in the current Ethernet topology model.

- [ ] **Italo**: update the draft accordingly

### SR-TE traffic steering on a device (issue #72)

### Binding between a L3VPN and an end-to-end SR-TE path (issue #83)

These two issues agreed to same: issue #83 has been closed as being duplicated with issue #72

The analysis on 2022-05-17 call has been agreed with Oscar

The configuration of the steering for L2VPN or L3VPN to a TE tunnel at the MPI is performed using the TE service mapping model. The P-PNC will translate this configuration to a proper device configuration, such as a BGP policy.

- [ ] **Italo/Oscar**: check with Dhruv is there are gaps in the current TE service mapping (e.g., granularity) to be documented in this draft

### BGP-LS for multi-domain VPN TE (issue #103)

BGP-LU and BGP-LS are addressing different issues.

The BGP-LU is dealing with the data plane configuration for the L2VPN and L3VPN packet forwarding between the two packet domains.

The BGP-LS is dealing with topology discovery. In case of ACTN, the P-PNC can expose its single-domain topology to the 
BGP and the MDSC can build the multi-domain topology view solely based on the topologies exposed by its underlay P-PNCs. The P-PNC can use BGP-LS to discover its domain topology. BGP-LS is typically used to convey the raw packet topology from a designated router/reflector to the P-PNC. That implies that using a YANG-specified NBI to the MDSC could benefit from abstracted/summarized/customized topology happening in the P-PNC,Pas opposed to a simple BGP-LS session.

Since the mechanisms used by the P-PNC to discover the packet topology exposed to the MDSC are outside the scope of this draft, no changes are required to the document since these are just some among the possible mechanisms that the P-PNC can use.

The issue has been closed with the provided clarification.
