# ACTN POI weekly call (April 27, 2021)

## Participants
- Brent Foster
- Gabriele Galimberti
- Italo Busi
- Jeff Bouquier
- Jeff Tantsura
- John Scudder
- Paolo Volpato
- Sergio Belotti

## Admin

### Review of the minutes of the latest Slot 1 calls

Minutes of the call on April 20, 2021 reviewed: [minutes-2021-04-20](https://github.com/FabioPeruzzini/actn-poi/blob/master/minutes/minutes-2021-04-20.md)

Inventory: [PR #43](https://github.com/FabioPeruzzini/actn-poi/pull/43) has been merged closing [Issue #16](https://github.com/FabioPeruzzini/actn-poi/issues/16)

### README update

[PR #47](https://github.com/FabioPeruzzini/actn-poi/pull/47) created to close [Issue #44](https://github.com/FabioPeruzzini/actn-poi/issues/44)

An URL has been added to generate the diff between the latest editors' copy and the latest published copy of the draft

### Past Actions

- [ ] **All**: Review the slides on GH [issue #38](https://github.com/FabioPeruzzini/actn-poi/issues/38) and provide feedbacks\
**On-going:** on today's agenda

- [x] **Brent:** prepare additional slides providing an example targeted to the ACTN POI reference scenario.\
**Closed:** on today's agenda

### Next calls:

Request to swap the weeks between slot 1 and slot 2 sent via e-mail:
- Slot 2 at 5pm CEST, starting from May 4th every two weeks
- Slot 1 at 10:30am CEST, starting from May 11th every two weeks

Proposal accepted

New plan:
- May 4th at 5pm CEST (Slot 2)
- May 11th at 10:30am CEST (Slot 1)
- May 18th at 5pm CEST (Slot 2)
- May 25th at 10:30am CEST (Slot 1)

Slot 2 is US friendly and slot 1 is China friendly

- [ ] **Italo:** request TEAS WG chairs to update the TEAS Webex calls according to the new plan ([issue#49](https://github.com/FabioPeruzzini/actn-poi/issues/49))

### Plan for IETF 111

Daniel has volounteer to have a full review of the -02 draft before submitting it to IETF.

Possible plan for an update at IETF 111:
- All: prepare a -02 draft for IETF 110 before June 28
- Daniel: provide a review before July 5
- Italo: submit the -02 draft on July 12 (cut-off dealine for IETF 111)

## Discussion

### L3VPN ([Issue #38](https://github.com/FabioPeruzzini/actn-poi/issues/38))

Reviewed Brent's updated presentation: [issue#38-comment](https://github.com/FabioPeruzzini/actn-poi/issues/38#issuecomment-830319909)

- [ ] **Brent:** prepare some slides analysing the end-to-end SR-TE scenario

- [ ] **Italo/Paolo/Jeff:** prepare some initial text proposal for the draft about L3VPN scenario

### Multi-layer/multi-domain Path computation issues

#### Summarization with hierarchical architecture ([Issue #46](https://github.com/FabioPeruzzini/actn-poi/issues/46))

https://github.com/FabioPeruzzini/actn-poi/issues/46#issuecomment-827714378

#### P-PNC awareness of underlaying Optical tunnels' SRLGs ([Issue #45](https://github.com/FabioPeruzzini/actn-poi/issues/45))

Jeff: not clear how MDSC can get information about e.g. SRLGs in optical network if it has abstract view only of the optical network.

https://github.com/FabioPeruzzini/actn-poi/issues/45#issuecomment-827722029

More discussion is required
