# ACTN POI weekly call - Slot 2 (December 13, 2022)

## Participants
- Brent Foster
- Italo Busi
- Jeff Bouquier
- Oscar González de Dios
- Paolo Volpato
- Prasenjit Manna
- Sergio Belotti

## Admin

### Closed Issues

- PR #105 has been merged. Pavan reported offline he is ok with the updated text so issue #88 has been closed

### Next calls

The next calls have been cancelled due to Christmas holidays.

The calls will restart from January 10, 2023:

- January 10th at 11am NA EDT / 5pm CEST / 11pm CST (Slot 2)
- January 17th at 4:30am NA EDT / 10:30am CEST / 4:30pm CST (Slot 1)
- January 24th at 11am NA EDT / 5pm CEST / 11pm CST (Slot 2)

## Discussion

### SR-TE traffic steering on a device (issue #72)

Feedbacks from the discussion with Dhruv:

https://github.com/FabioPeruzzini/actn-poi/issues/72#issuecomment-1335063430

Oscar: we can document what can be done with the current model. The question for the team is whether this is sufficient or if there is a need to split the traffic in different ways (more granular than load balancing) between multiple parallel tunnels. We can document this behavior and the identified gap.

Italo/Brent: How the P-PNC configures the PE devices toward the proper TE tunnel(s) is outside the scope of this document.

Oscar: I would like to work on a draft addressing this gap but this is outside the scope of this work.

- [ ] **Italo**: update the draft based on this analysis

### Muxponders' constraints (issue #108)

> - [ ] **Italo, Sergio, Jeff, Fabio**: check whether muxponders can constraint which client ports can be connected together (talk offline also with Gabriele)

Jeff checked internally and there are muxponders which have this constraint but other muxponders which do not have this constraint

Italo: my doubt is about how to report at the MPI whether there is or not this constraint in the underlay hardware

Sergio: this is true for any other hardware constraint

Jeff: you can also have a muxponder on one end and a transponder on the other end. You can also have multiple generations of transponders/muxponders that are connected as long as there are common operational modes between the older and newer transponder/muxponder generations

Italo: I think this is related to the open issue of reporting the L1 capabilities/constraints of a transponder

Italo: we may have an high level description of this issue in the appendix and leave the detailed analysis and resolution to other documents

Jeff: let's further discuss with Gabriele
