# ACTN POI bi-weekly call (March 23, 2021)

## Participants
- Aihua Guo
- Brent Foster
- Italo Busi
- Jeff Bouquier
- Jeff Tantsura
- Oscar Gonz√°lez de Dios
- Paolo Volpato
- Sergio Belotti

## Review of the minutes of the latest Slot 1 calls

Minutes of the call on March 15, 2021 reviewed: [minutes-2021-03-15](https://github.com/FabioPeruzzini/actn-poi/blob/master/minutes/minutes-2021-03-15.md)

We will keep the current architecture with split P-PNCs for each IP domain but we could clarify that this is a reference functional architecture not constraining deployment architectured.

**Past Actions:**

- [x] __Jeff B.__: Check with other operators about the option to consider for multi-domain L3VPN (e.g., Binding SID)\
__Closed:__ Oscar confirmed he is ok with the scenarios described in [issue #38-comment](https://github.com/FabioPeruzzini/actn-poi/files/6081933/IETF.draft.POI.v02.discussions.on.scenario.4.2.v1_02032021.pptx).

    - [ ] __Fabio__: provide feedbakcs about the option to consider for multi-domain L3VPN

- [x] __Action (Brent/Paolo):__ provide more input about the need to support EPE SID\
__Closed:__ Discussed during this call

- [x] **Italo**: Ask TEAS WG chair to move the Webex meeting from April 5h to March 29th\
__Deleted:__ Not everybody is available the week of March 29. We will start with the new schedule for the calls from April 6.

- [x] **All**: reply to the Doodle polls before March 19th EOB\
__Closed__ 

- [x] **Italo**: send a mail to get feedbacks from other contributors about the option to make ACTN POI calls weekly\
__Closed__

- [x] **Italo**: ask Fabio to add Oscar as a contributor to ACTN POI github\
__Closed:__ Invitation has been sent.

## Discussion

### New schedule for ACTN POI calls

Doodle polls and investigation about the option to make the ACTN POI calls weekly, completed on March 19.

The new schedule is to alternate weekly calls:
* Slot 1: 4:30am EDT (10:30am CEST, 4:30pm in China during summer), starting from April 6 (Tuesday) every two weeks
* Slot 2: 11am EDT (5pm CEST, 11pm in China during summer), starting from April 13 (Tuesday) every two week 

- [ ] **Italo**: Ask TEAS WG chair to update the Webex for the ACTN POI calls

### Inventory ([Issue #16](https://github.com/FabioPeruzzini/actn-poi/issues/16))

Waiting for review of [PR #43](https://github.com/FabioPeruzzini/actn-poi/pull/43)

### L3VPN ([Issue #38](https://github.com/FabioPeruzzini/actn-poi/issues/38))

Brent: the BR needs an adjacency SID (e.g. EPE SID) to the other domain BR. The question is whether we need to go into this level of detail.  As long as we provide means for PNC to configure a SID list then these details can be ignored for this project.

Jeff B.: it may depend on the scenario, and we do not need to enter this level of detail.

Oscar: how to analyse in details?

Jeff B.: we have two scenarios, one where the MDSC request candidiate paths to each PNCs and one where the MDSC makes path computation end-to-end and pushes what is needed to each PNC. What we need is to describe how the ingress PE is configured to push the right label stack.

Oscar: we need to double check that we have the right model at the MPI. So far all the models that allow configuring the binding SID looks device models more than MPI models. I am also trying to push to be able to re-use the TE tunnel with proper augmentation and highlight this gap.

Italo: we can highlight this gap in the draft.


Brent: there are three cases which have an implication in the YANG model:
1. PCC initiated policy with statically configured explicit path(e.g configured by P-PNC as IP hops or SID-list)
2. PCE initiated policy
3. PCC initated policy delegating PCE for path computation

We need to discuss whether to address all these cases or focusing the analysis on one scenario.
(Seems consensus was that we focus on option 1)

- [ ] **Brent**: Draw sample workflow for Option 1

Italo: we can start with one option and leave other options for future updates or documents

Agreement to focus on PCC initiated solution where the P-PNC configure the whole label stack in the ingress PE

Need to discuss whether the draft will analyse both scenario 1 (seamless MPLS) and scenario 2 (SR-TE end-to-end) on only one scenario

Jeff T.: there is also some work on-going for semanless MPLS with SR (draft-hegde-spring-mpls-seamless-sr)

- [ ] **Brent**: Check how scenario 1 can work by setting BGP-LU policy and multiple IP loopback addresses in the PE

Italo: path computation would be almost the same in the two scenarios (small differences in the details)

Brent: the execution of the path setup would be different in the two scenarios

- [ ] **Italo**: Send some comments on the path computation description

- [ ] **All**: Review the slides on GH [issue #38](https://github.com/FabioPeruzzini/actn-poi/issues/38) and provide feedbacks

### Plan for IETF 111

Daniel has volounteer to have a full review of the -02 draft before submitting it to IETF.

Possible plan for an update at IETF 111:
- All: prepare a -02 draft for IETF 110 before June 28
- Daniel: provide a review before July 5
- Italo: submit the -02 draft on July 12 (expected cut-off dealine for IETF111, not yet announced)

## Next calls:

- April 6th at 10:30am CEST (Slot 1)
- April 13th at 5pm CEST (Slot 2)
- April 20th at 10:30am CEST (Slot 1)
- April 27th at 5pm CEST (Slot 2)
