# ACTN POI weekly call - Slot 1 (May 9, 2023)

## Participants

- Chaode Yu
- Daniele Ceccarelli
- Fabio Peruzzini
- Gabriele Galimberti
- Italo Busi
- Jeff Bouquier
- Julien Meuric
- Oscar González de Dios
- Paolo Volpato
- Prasenjit Manna
- Yuji Tochio

## Admin

### Review of the minutes of the latest ad-hoc calls

Minutes of the call on April 21, 2023 reviewed: https://github.com/FabioPeruzzini/actn-poi/blob/master/minutes/minutes-2023-04-21.md

Minutes of the call on April 28, 2023 reviewed: https://github.com/FabioPeruzzini/actn-poi/blob/master/minutes/minutes-2023-04-28.md

Minutes of the call on May 3, 2023 reviewed: https://github.com/FabioPeruzzini/actn-poi/blob/master/minutes/minutes-2023-05-03.md

### Closed Issues

None

### Next calls

- May 16th at 11am NA EDT / 5pm CEST / 11pm CST (CCAMP)
- May 23rd at 4:30am NA EDT / 10:30am CEST / 3:30pm CST (TEAS)
- May 30th at 11am NA EDT / 5pm CEST / 11pm CST (CCAMP)
- June 6th at 4:30am NA EDT / 10:30am CEST / 3:30pm CST (TEAS)

The former slot 1 WebEx setup by Prasenjit will be used for the TEAS bi-weekly calls:

https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/msg/teas/FI9x8gGQep_heV5XMTYOjNjHLvw/

The former slot 2 WebEx setup by Prasenjit has been cancelled:

https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/msg/teas/nc_L3c7tIUGVx8C9LfWCb5g6JrQ/

A new CCAMP WG WebEx has been setup:

https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/msg/ccamp/ewZ77Kr6TpiZK7SExHtntWVS1Gs/

https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/msg/teas/-Wi3-3V5FWgihZk7CMSq25Vdo8g/

- [ ] **Italo**: send a mail on both CCAMP and TEAS WG mailing lists to clarify the re-structuring of the ACTN POI calls

### Minutes restructuring

I might be worthwhile restructuring a bit the minutes, which are now all in the ACTN POI base github repository, to spread the information on multiple github repositories

- [ ] **Daniele/Italo**: see if it possible to improve the structure of the meeting minutes

### Migrate github repository under TEAS WG

Agreed to move the ACTN POI base repository under TEAS WG repository

Before doing this, all the members of the ACTN POI repository should request the TEAS WG chairs to join the TEAS WG github:

https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/msg/teas/4p7diDKuKTm6Fmm-YXNcqXBlTs4/

- [ ] **All**: request the TEAS WG chairs to join the TEAS WG github before May 23rd

- [ ] **Italo/Fabio**: move the ACTN POI github repository under TEAS WG (after May 23rd)

## Discussion (POI Applicability)

### Muxponders' constraints (issue #108)

It has been agreed to update the draft to just describe the issue and identify this as a gap of the current models.

- [ ] **Italo**: update the draft accordingly

### Drafts in SPRING related to our work (issue #107)

Daniele: the drafts define some segment IDs which are used to tell the routers to go through an optical path when this SID is received

Daniele/Julien: it is not fully clear whether the SID is triggering the setup of a new optical path or just the usage of an already established optical path

Italo: the usage looks strange since after the optical path is setup, it could be seen as a normal IP link and existing SID can be used to trigger the use of the link

More discussion is needed (e.g., with draft co-authors) but we can consider this issue outside the scope of the current ACTN POI draft

We can move this issue to the ACTN POI assurance draft to see if something should be done in future in the context of the new draft

## Discussion (POI Assurance)

### Optical Network Fault Management (issue #8)

Prepared some initial text proposal:

> In this case, the O-PNC is fully responsible for the fault management (including failure detection, location and repair) within the optical domain.
> 
> The detailed mechanisms used by the O-PNC for intra-domain fault management are outside the scope of this document. Optical data plane standards provide a comprehensive set of OAM tools, defined in [ITU-T G.709] and [ITU-T G.798], that would assist O-PNC fault management, as described in [ITU-T G.7710] and [ITU-T G.874].
> 
> It is worth noting that the OAM tools, defined in [ITU-T G.709] and [ITU-T G.798], are fully standardized for the ODU, OTU and FlexO sub-layers but only functionally standardized for the optical medial layer (i.e., OCh and OTSiA). This is not an issue since it is assumed that the optical NEs and O-PNC within a single domain are single-vendor.
> 
> However, the level of standardization of the OAM tools management requirements is sufficient to allow defining standard requirements and data model at the MPI for multi-vendor, multi-domain and multi-layer fault management.
> 
> Even if in this case the fault management is fully under the responsibility of the O-PNC, it is still needed to inform the MDSC that there is a failure within the optical domain and that the O-PNC is working on it.
> 
> A failure within the optical network can cause secondary failure on multiple optical tunnels which can in turn cause failures on the multi-layer IP links and on the L2VPN and L3VPN services whose traffic is sent over the failed tunnels.
> 
> For example, with a reference to Figure 7 of [ACTN POI], a failure within the optical network can cause a failure on the optical tunnel between NE11 and NE12. As a consequence, also the IP link between PE13 and BR11 is failed and the L2VPN/L3VPN xxx is also affected.
> 
> The O-PNC can report the operational status of the optical tunnels to the MDSC to let the MDSC know that the optical tunnel is down. The MDSC can then correlate the failure of the optical tunnel (e.g., the optical tunnel between NE11 and NE12 in Figure 7 of [ACTN POI]) with the secondary failures on the L2VPN/L3VPN whose traffic has been routed through that optical tunnel.

**Comment**: Need to discuss here why reporting the operational status of the optical tunnel is not sufficient to motivate the need for a more enhanced incident management as proposed in [draft-feng-opsawg-incident-management]

> The MDSC should also inform the OSS/orchestration layer about the failures on the affected L2VPN/L3VPN services though mechanisms which are outside the scope of this document.
> 

**Comment**: Need further discussion about the behavior of P-PNC. The P-PNC can also discover that the multi-layer IP link is down (e.g., using BFD). However, I think that the fault management process in P-PNC should be different from the case where the failed IP link is a single-layer IP link under P-PNC responsibility.

**Comment**: The assumption in this text is that there are grey interfaces between the routers and the optical NEs. More investigation is needed for the scenarios where optical pluggable interfaces are used in the router. Three scenarios for WDM networks: grey interfaces, colored interfaces option 1 and colored interfaces option 2. To consider also the case with ODU switching.

