# ACTN POI weekly call - Slot 2 (February 22, 2022)

## Participants
- Brent Foster
- Fabio Peruzzini
- Gabriele Galimberti
- Italo Busi
- Jeff Bouquier
- Paolo Volpato
- Sergio Belotti
- Victor Lopez

## Admin

### Review of the minutes of the latest Slot 1 calls

Minutes of the call on February 15, 2022 reviewed: https://github.com/FabioPeruzzini/actn-poi/blob/master/minutes/minutes-2022-02-15.md

### Closed Issues

None

### Next calls

- March 1st at 4:30am NAEST / 10:30am CET / 5:30pm China (Slot 1)

We can stop weekly call after March 1st and resume the weekly calls after IETF 113

The presentation slides can be reviewed offline and, if needed, ad-hoc calls can be scheduled on demand

## Discussion

### Text review (PR #69)

Received comments from Jeff, Paolo and Sergio. The combined comments have been uploaded on GitHub:

https://github.com/FabioPeruzzini/actn-poi/files/8111706/draft-ietf-teas-actn-poi-applicability.-.JB-PV-SB.docx

Most of the comments have been addressed

The comment on WDM terminology (WDM node, ROADM, ...) requires another review cycle so it has been tracked as a new issue #78 planned to be addressed after IETF 113

The following comments require further discussion:

* Figures for link discovery cases would help
* SR-TE bandwidth
* LLDP: Chassis ID versus System Name TLVs
* Explicit path configuration
* Who configures IP links: P-PNC, MDSC or either (on a case-by-case)
* Underlay/overlay terminology

#### Figures for link discovery cases would help

An updated version of the slides have been uploaded on GitHub:

https://github.com/FabioPeruzzini/actn-poi/files/8111703/inter-domain-link-discovery-03.pptx

A typo has been spotted on the latest slides. A further updated version of the slides has been uploaded on GitHub:

[inter-domain-link-discovery-04.pptx](https://github.com/FabioPeruzzini/actn-poi/files/8119535/inter-domain-link-discovery-04.pptx)

- [ ] Gabriele: to prepare an ASCII version of slides 3, 5, 9 and, optionally, 7 for inclusion, as examples, in the draft

- [ ] Italo: update the draft description referencing the examples in the slides

#### SR-TE bandwidth

The current assumption is that P-PNC is responsible to configure the SR policies on the routers and to manage the bandwidth within its domain. There is therefore the need for a "higher-level" model, similar to the TE Tunnel model, between the MDSC and the P-PNC.

The draft assumes that the TE Tunnel model is used since it already provides the concepts of paths, path constraints and bandwidth. However same gaps have been already identified: lack of multiple paths and lack of SR-TE technology attributes.

In section 4.2.3, it is said that the MDSC configures TI-LFA for a given SR-TE path. However, TI-LFA is pre-configured by the P-PNC for local protection, independently from the SR-TE paths. An unprotected adjacency SID can be used if TI-LFA local protection is not required.

- [ ] Brent: to provide some text for section 4.2.3 about the protection options: to be further discussed whether to place this text in section 4.2.3 or in section 2.2.2

#### LLDP: Chassis ID versus System Name TLVs

- [ ] Italo: update the text to clarify that:
  - routers and optical NEs should report all the relevant LLDP information (including System Name is used)
  - the encoding of the LLDP information is implementation-specific, but the encoding rules need to be consistent across all the PNCs. The suggestion is to encode the Chassis ID and Port ID since they are mandatory TLVs.

#### Explicit path configuration

- [ ] Paolo: to discuss offline via mail some text proposal for section 2.2

#### Who configures IP links: P-PNC, MDSC or either (on a case-by-case)

Single-layer intra-domain IP link could be configured by the P-PNC and reported to the MDSC or by the MDSC. The drawback of the first option is that we can have different work-flows depending on whether the links are intra-domain versus inter-domain or single-layer versus multi-layer

Fabio: today the single-layer intra-domain IP links are configured by the P-PNC

- [ ] Jeff: get some feedbacks

Single-layer inter-domain IP link could be configured by P-PNCs with some offline negotiation or by MDSC.

Multi-layer intra-domain IP link could be configured by the P-PNC or by the MDSC.

- [ ] Continue discussion of this issue offline

#### Additional comments

- [ ] Italo: Update the reference to L3NM draft with a reference to RFC9182

It would be better to keep L3-TE Topo at the P-PNC MPI.

However, further investigation is needed since L3-TE Topo does not seem needed for SR-TE topology but it may be useful if also IP/MPLS is supported in addition to SR-TE. The draft describes the models which at least are needed to support the analyzed scenarios so it does not preclude having other models (e.g., L3-TE Topo), if needed for other scenarios.

- [ ] Italo: check with TEAS experts about L3-TE Topo for SR-TE

### SR-TE traffic steering on a device (issue #72)

> - [ ] @oscargdd @jbouqui153 : further investigate which model could be applied at the MPI

Jeff reported some concerns that the per-prefix method of steering L3VPN traffic to an SR policy (“ODN”) does not apply to all scenarios (such as L2 pseudowire).

Brent: For L2 pseudowire we have another configuration to set the “preferred-path”.  I have included this example in the slides I reviewed last time.

The “common denominator” between L2VPN and L3VPN would be simply configuring a static route that directs all traffic (L2VPN or L3VPN) to a remote PE loopback address.  However, this is not providing granular control and I would not recommend it.
