# ACTN POI weekly call - TEAS WG session  (May 23, 2023)

## Participants

- Daniele Ceccarelli
- Gabriele Galimberti
- Italo Busi
- Jeff Bouquier
- Julien Meuric
- Yuji Tochio

## Admin

### Closed Issues

None

### Next calls

- May 30th at 11am NA EDT / 5pm CEST / 11pm CST (CCAMP)
- June 13th at 11am NA EDT / 5pm CEST / 11pm CST (CCAMP)
- June 20th at 4:30am NA EDT / 10:30am CEST / 3:30pm CST (TEAS)

Agreed to cancel the call on June 6h (TEAS WG session)

- [ ] **Italo**: send a notification mail to the TEAS WG and to the POI calls participants

### Migrate github repository under TEAS WG

Agreed to move the ACTN POI base repository under TEAS WG repository

> - [x] **All**: request the TEAS WG chairs to join the TEAS WG github before May 23rd

> - [ ] **Italo/Fabio**: move the ACTN POI github repository under TEAS WG (after May 23rd)
> 

## Discussion (POI Assurance)

### RCA for optical and IP/MPLS domains (issue #4)

RFC8632 is a YANG data model for alarm management but peraphs it could be used to provide more filtered/aggregated information on root-cause alarm and/or the list of services affected by the failure

This needs to be investigated further

This coudl be also related with the comment on issue #8 about reporting the operational state of the optical tunnels:

> **Comment**: Need to discuss here why reporting the operational status of the optical tunnel is not sufficient to motivate the need for a more enhanced incident management as proposed in [draft-feng-opsawg-incident-management]
> 

### Performance monitoring for IP domains (issue #3)

Jeff: our preference is that even for multi-layer services, the MDSC can be able to do performance monitoring of L2/L3 VPN services throught the O-PNC and P-PNC so it would be good if the draft can describe which mechanisms can be used to report this information to the MDSC from the P-PNC

We may need input from packet experts to address this analysis

- [ ] **Jeff**: review the ToC of the I-D and propose new sections to address this issue

