# ACTN POI weekly call (April 6, 2021)

## Participants
- Anton Snitser
- Fabio Peruzzini
- Gabriele Galimberti
- Italo Busi
- Jeff Bouquier
- Oscar Gonz√°lez de Dios
- Paolo Volpato
- Sergio Belotti
- Swamynathan B.
- Yuji Tochio

## Review of the minutes of the latest Slot 2 calls

Minutes of the call on March 23, 2021 reviewed: [minutes-2021-03-23](https://github.com/FabioPeruzzini/actn-poi/blob/master/minutes/minutes-2021-03-23.md)

**Past Actions:**

- [x] __Fabio__: provide feedbakcs about the option to consider for multi-domain L3VPN\
**Closed:** Current solution is based on RSVP-TE intra-domain with only OSPF for inter-domain.
In the future the plan is to use end-to-end SR-TE (scenario 2, case 2). This should be the current focus.

- [x] **Italo**: Ask TEAS WG chair to update the Webex for the ACTN POI calls\
**Closed:** request has been sent. Updated Webex invitations sent on TEAS WG mailing list on April 3rd, 2021.

- [ ] **Brent**: Draw sample workflow for Option 1\
**On-going:** planned for discussion on April 13 call

- [ ] **Brent**: Check how scenario 1 can work by setting BGP-LU policy and multiple IP loopback addresses in the PE\
**On-going:** planned for discussion on April 13 call

- [ ] **Italo**: Send some comments on the path computation description\
**On-going:**

- [ ] **All**: Review the slides on GH [issue #38](https://github.com/FabioPeruzzini/actn-poi/issues/38) and provide feedbacks\
**On-going:**

### Inventory ([Issue #16](https://github.com/FabioPeruzzini/actn-poi/issues/16))

Review of [PR #43](https://github.com/FabioPeruzzini/actn-poi/pull/43) is still on-going

Comments from Anton: [PR #43-comment](https://github.com/FabioPeruzzini/actn-poi/pull/43#pullrequestreview-627521882) addressed as reported in [PR #43-reply](https://github.com/FabioPeruzzini/actn-poi/pull/43#issuecomment-814010840)

### L3VPN ([Issue #38](https://github.com/FabioPeruzzini/actn-poi/issues/38))

Fabio: the whole network is now one IGP domain

The goal is how to manage multi-domain networks and how the MDSC can help manage them

Nobody is currently deploying inter-domain RSVP-TE so the question is now whether to address only end-to-end SR-TE or also seamless MPLS

We can start analysing the two scenarios and later decide what to put into the draft, giving priority to scenario 2, case 2 (end-to-end SR-TE)

Note: in the slides from Brent, the seamless MPLS scenario is referred as BGP-LU (first bulle) and the end-to-end SR-TE is called inter-domain SR (third bulley)

## Next calls:

- April 13th at 5pm CEST (Slot 2)
- April 20th at 10:30am CEST (Slot 1)
- April 27th at 5pm CEST (Slot 2)
- May 4th at 10:30am CEST (Slot 1)

### Plan for IETF 111

Daniel has volounteer to have a full review of the -02 draft before submitting it to IETF.

Possible plan for an update at IETF 111:
- All: prepare a -02 draft for IETF 110 before June 28
- Daniel: provide a review before July 5
- Italo: submit the -02 draft on July 12 (expected cut-off dealine for IETF111, not yet announced)
