# ACTN POI weekly call - Slot 2 (January 10, 2023)

## Participants
- Brent Foster
- Fabio Peruzzini
- Gabriele Galimberti
- Italo Busi
- Jeff Bouquier
- Paolo Volpato
- Prasenjit Manna
- Sergio Belotti

## Admin

### Review of the minutes of the latest Slot 1 calls

None

### Closed Issues

None

### Draft expiration

The current draft -07 is expiring on January 11, 2023

- [ ] **Italo**: submit the version in the master branch, sending a mail to the TEAS WG indicating the changes

### Next calls

- January 17th at 4:30am NA EDT / 10:30am CEST / 4:30pm CST (Slot 1)
- January 24th at 11am NA EDT / 5pm CEST / 11pm CST (Slot 2)
- January 31st at 4:30am NA EDT / 10:30am CEST / 4:30pm CST (Slot 1)
- February 7th at 11am NA EDT / 5pm CEST / 11pm CST (Slot 2)

## Discussion

### Protection options with SR-TE (issue #80)

> * [x]  Brent: to provide some text for section 4.2.3 about the protection options: to be further discussed whether to place this text in section 4.2.3 or in section 2.2.2

The text proposed in https://github.com/FabioPeruzzini/actn-poi/issues/80#issuecomment-1377399770 has been reviewed and agreed.

It may be useful to add also similar text for MPLS-TE and generalize the description (in line with the discussion in issue #88)

- [ ] **Brent**: provide a similar text proposal for the MPLS-TE case

### ACTN POI Next Steps

Unordered list of items which have been discussed and put out of scope from the current draft:

1. Colored interfaces on IP routers
2. Multi-layer fault management
3. Multi-layer performance management
4. Multi-layer resiliency (see Appendix B in current draft)
5. Setup of an optical tunnel for inter-domain IP links
6. Not congruent domain boundaries between IP and Optical domains
7. Mix of fixed and flexi-grid DWDM networks
8. Muxponder scenarios
9. Multi-layer/multi-domain optimizations and/or maintenance activities
10. Other approaches for multi-layer path computation (Full summarization and Full knowledge: section 2.1.2)

Jeff: my priority is colored interfaces on the IP routers, to check that the ACTN architecture can cope with this scenario. Another important point is the mix of fixed and flexi-grid DWDM networks. Fault and performance management is also important. Muxponder is also important, although the description in appendix A should be sufficient. In priority order: 1, 7, 8 and 2&3

Prasenijt: point 8 is quite similar to the transponder case

Items 7 and 8 could be covered in the current draft (to be confirmed after the merging of PR #106)

Fabio: for TIM points 2, 3 and 4 are very important. For the time being we are not planning to use colored interfaces on the routers. Muxponder is also important but the description in Appendix A is sufficient

Gabriele: in my opinion, points 2, 3 and 4 for transponder and muxponders cases should be included in the current draft

Italo: we have excluded these use cases not to overweight the work/scope of the current draft

Jeff: also we do not want to report all the optical alarms to the MDSC so there should be some rules for alarm correlation

Gabriele: we should complete the current draft as quickly as possible to use this as the basis for the next steps. Once this document is an RFC we can reference this RFC in new draft(s) providing extensions to this RFC

Conclusion: address points 1, 2, 3 and 4 (the analysis of scenarios 2, 3 and 4 at the MPI would be different between the transponder/muxponder use cases and the colored interfaces use cases). To further discussion the structure of the next draft(s): how many drafts and which content for each draft

### Muxponders' constraints (issue #108)

> - [x] **Italo, Sergio, Jeff, Fabio**: check whether muxponders can constraint which client ports can be connected together (talk offline also with Gabriele)

It is confirmed that this is a possible scenario to be addressed. The draft can just describe the issue and identify this as a gap of the current models. The gap can be then addressed in the context of optical impairments and/or flexi-grid topology and tunnel models.
