# ACTN POI bi-weekly call (February 8, 2021)

## Participants
- Anton Snitser
- Fabio Peruzzini
- Italo Busi
- Jeff Bouquier
- Michael Scharf
- Paolo Volpato
- Sergio Belotti
- Swamynathan B.
- Yuji Tochio

## Review of the minutes of the last calls (January 26, 2021)

Minutes of the call on January 26, 2021 reviewed: [minutes-2021-01-26](https://github.com/FabioPeruzzini/actn-poi/blob/master/minutes/minutes-2021-01-26.md)

Jeff B.: there are two cases. One case is where the multi-layer path computation is performed by the MDSC based on the SRLG exposed by the O-PNC while the second case is where the path computation is done by the P-PNC taking into account the SRLGs exported by the O-PNC through the MDSC.

Need to further discuss these two cases.

Jeff B.: three scenarios:
1) RSVP-TE/RSVP-TE: Binding SID is not applicable. Seamless MPLS (inter-AS option C with BGP-LU)
2) RSVP-TE/SR-TE: stitching between domains still needs Seamless MPLS (inter-AS option C with BGP-LU)
3) SR-TE/SR-TE: binding SID can be used for stitching between the two domains

With BGP, it is not possible to do Traffic Engineering but the MDSC can check the SRLG constraints and play a bit with BGP configuration.

Need to further discuss these cases with other operators.

Anton: we may consider the involvement of the MDSC more explicit in the selection of the IP path or implicit by sharing the SRLG information.

Anton: LxNM can be used to create the service topology and force the traffic to follow the multi-domain IP path computed by the MDSC

Jeff/Paolo: we need to suppose that PNC makes the correct the  work and configuration toward
the right ASBR and MDSC can exploit on that.

**Past Actions:**

- [x] **Jeff**: propose some text describing the need for a standard inventory NBI\
__Closed:__ For discussion today

- [x] **Italo/Sergio**: check with TE authors about the network inventory model\
__Closed:__ For discussion today

- [ ] **Jeff/Italo/Paolo/Brent**: start analysing the L3VPN scenario (to be provided by Jeff)\
__On-going:__ follow-up discussion planned for the next call (February 23, 2021)

- [ ] **Sergio**: check for other volounteers to start analysing the L3VPN scenario\
__On-going:__ 

- [x] __Jeff T.__: Provide some background information about the three options for multi-domain L3VPN\
__Closed:__ follow-up discussion planned for the next call (February 23, 2021)\
Some references provided offline by Brent in [Issue #38-comment](https://github.com/FabioPeruzzini/actn-poi/issues/38#issuecomment-775323981)

- [ ] __Jeff B.__: Check with other operators about the option to consider for multi-domain L3VPN (e.g., Binding SID)\
__On-going:__ some feedbacks provided during this call.\
Need to further discuss these cases with other operators.

## Discussion

### Inventory

There are no data models in IETF to report the whole inventory information.

RFC8345 has foreseen some work for inventory as an augmentation of the network model (that's the reason why the network model and the network topology models have been split). However, no work has been done to augment the network model with inventory information.

Anton: the initial phase should be to report the physical ports and location in the holders.

Two set of requirements:
1) report within the Topology model, the location of the physical port associated with an LTP and maybe a TTP;
2) report the whole inventory information.

In case of an LTP is associated with a logical port, there is no inventory information.

In case of a LAG, the inventory information is associated with the physical links of its members and not with the logical LAG interface.

The set of information to report in the inventory needs to be decided.

**Actions:**

- [ ] **Jeff/Italo**: propose some text describing the need for a standard inventory NBI

It is worthwhile starting some work to propose YANG models to address these gaps. This work is outside the scope of ACTN POI but can be started by the people (Italo/Sergio/Jeff B./Anton/Fabio)

### Plan for IETF 110

Given the status of the discussion on the L3VPN scenario, it is preferred not to update the draft for IETF 110 and to continue the work.

**Post-meeting Note** The next slot 1 call is scheduled on March 8th, which is the week of IETF 110. In order to avoid conflicts with IETF 110, the call will be moved to March 15th (same time).

**Actions:**

- [ ] **Italo**: Ask TEAS WG chair to move the Webex meeting from March 8th to March 15th

Daniel has volounteer to have a full review of the -02 draft before submitting it to IETF.

The expectation is to be able to submit a -02 version ahead of the IETF 111 cut-off deadline. However the worst case plan for an update at IETF 111 could be:
- All: prepare a -02 draft for IETF 110 before June 28
- Daniel: provide a review before July 5
- Italo: submit the -02 draft on July 12 (expected cut-off dealine for IETF111, not yet announced)

## Next calls:
- February 23rd at 5pm CET (Slot 2)
- March ~~8th~~**15th** at 11am CET (Slot 1)
