# ACTN POI weekly call - Slot 2 (September 27, 2022)

## Participants
-	Gabriele Galimberti
-	Paolo Volpato
-	Jeff Bouquier
-	Prasenjit Manna
-	Sergio Belotti

## Admin

### Review of the minutes of the latest Slot 1 calls

Minutes of the call on September 20, 2022 reviewed: https://github.com/FabioPeruzzini/actn-poi/blob/master/minutes/minutes-2022-09-20.md

## Discussion

### Appendix A.2: Add TXP sub-case and clarify "OCh-CC" (adjacency) changes (issue #29)

Basically means to put some sentences to explain that for TXP sub-case OCh-CC is straightforward while for MXP this is bit more complicated but still can be managed.

- [ ] **Gabriele** will submit a text proposal to be reviewed by all.

###  P-PNC awareness of underlying Optical tunnels' SRLGs #45 

Discussed again during the call as Gabriele agreed there is no current YANG data model for delivering the optical SRLGs from MDSC to P-PNC 
but Cisco made a lot of work on this and could provide a proposal to be discussed with the team

Agreed between all that at least the two modes of operations need to be supported as described in section 2.1.2:

1) **option 3 we called “Full knowledge”**: Centralised MDSC gathers all information about optical networks underneath including SRLGs from O-PNCs and 
performs multi-layer path computation and then push the optical circuit request towards O-PNC and the end-to-end SR-TE path request and the L3VPN/L2VPN 
service binding towards the P-PNC. As commented by Gabriele, apart from possible scalability issues it is not likely that MDSC can perform the optical
impairment validation and path computation. Today this is done by the O-PNC in conjunction with Vendor planning tool for a good accuracy.
At MDSC level it would mean that all the Vendor information (all characteristics of their NEs along with their optical impairment algorithms) 
is shared with an open-source planning tool like GNPy for example.

2) **option 2 we called “Partial summarisation”**: we should have the possibility to request a optical circuit with SRLG exclusion with a previous optical circuit.
Gabriele explained how this was done with UNI-GMPLS. Similarly O-PNC should perform the optical impairment validation and path computation for the new optical 
circuit and provides back to MDSC the list of SRLGs for this new optical circuit along with path (RRO), lambda, power etc.  MDSC then should be able to share 
these SRLGs with the P-PNC that will perform the SR-TE path computation for the new requested IP VPN service. If existing optical circuit is modified 
(e.g. after restoration) then O-PNC will notify MDSC of the new path characteristics (including new SRLGs) and MDSC will have to update the P-PNC that 
will act in consequence.

Sergio mentioned that this topic of path computation between MDSC and O-PNC was discussed a lot in TEAS for generic model https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-teas-yang-path-computation
and in CCAMP for the specific optical path computation model https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-gbb-ccamp-otn-path-computation-yang and 
https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-gbb-ccamp-optical-path-computation-yang (which are currently polled for adoption as CCAMP WG drafts)
